README.md, before:

![Reservoir - Drupal distribution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acquia/reservoir/8.x-1.x/reservoir-logo.png)

# Reservoir
Reservoir is a back end for your front end: a content repository. Uses
[JSON API](http://jsonapi.org) and OAuth2.

It's dead simple to use. Log in and there are four tabs:

1. **Content:** where content administrators administer content
2. **API:** where client developers can browse the API documentation
3. **Content models:** where the owner can model content for their needs
4. **Access control:** where the owner can administer users, clients, roles,
   permissions and tokens

After installing, you're welcomed by a tour, and you're ready to explore — in
fact, you can make API requests right away!

---

## How to install Reservoir

The preferred way to install Reservoir is using our
[Composer-based project template][template]. It's easy!

1. [Install Composer][getcomposer]

2. Create a Reservoir project with `composer`
```
$ composer create-project acquia/reservoir-project MY_PROJECT --stability=alpha
```
3. In your webhost configuration, point `my-project.com` to `[MY_PROJECT]/docroot`
4. Install Reservoir by going to *http://my-project.com*

## Concepts

There are only seven concepts you need to understand, and most of them you already know!

1. Content models
2. Content
3. Users
4. Clients (OAuth2)
5. Roles
6. Permissions
7. Tokens (OAuth2)

The tour starts automatically after installing Reservoir. Afterwards, you can
take the tour again by clicking the "Tour" button in the top right corner.

## Authentication

Reservoir supports only OAuth2, and only the Password Grant for OAuth2. Why
only this grant type? Because Reservoir provides a content repository, and
all content must have an author.

The password grant type allows clients (applications and front ends) to
interact with Reservoir, but always on behalf of a user.

## Before deploying to production

Before deploying Reservoir to production, delete demo material and change the
keys.

During installation, Reservoir creates four pieces of demo material:
1. `/node/1`: demo content, titled "Hello world"
2. `/user/2`: demo client user, called  `demo-user`
3. `/user/3`: demo content administrator, called `demo-writer`
4. `/user/4`: demo client developer, called `demo-developer`
5. `/client/1`: demo client, called `Demo app`

(The password is identical to the user upon each installation.)

You'll want to:
1. Remove the demo material
2. Replace the auto-generated OAuth2 public/private key pair
3. Refine CORS settings

That's it!

## Related projects

There is a rapidly expanding ecosystem surrounding Reservoir:

- **[reservoir-project](https://github.com/acquia/reservoir-project):** Composer installer for Reservoir
- **[reservoir-docker](https://github.com/mattgrill/reservoir-docker):** Docker image for Reservoir
- **[well](https://github.com/damontgomery/well):** Drupal installation based on Reservoir and [BLT](https://github.com/acquia/blt)

## Future

- Support [GraphQL](https://www.drupal.org/project/graphql) once it matures
- [Add authentication information to the OpenAPI docs](https://www.drupal.org/node/2886726)
- Add maintainable mechanism to not expose certain content/config entity types in both API docs nor allow accessing them via JSON API.
- Ensure only users with the `content_administrator` or `client_developer` roles can log in.
- Allow users with the `client_developer` to create and edit roles other than `client_administrator` and `client_developer`, and allow them only to grant+revoke non-restricted permissions. This then allows them to define roles (scopes) for clients.
- Make it easy to delete all default content in one go: node 1, users 2, 3 and 4.

[template]: https://github.com/acquia/reservoir-project "Composer-based project template"
[getcomposer]: https://getcomposer.org/ "Get Composer website"

Commit message:

Drupalist docs
Given #21 and #22, let's document the intended scope & audience of Reservoir. Point them to https://github.com/contentacms/contenta_jsonapi if Reservoir isn't a good match for them.

README.md, after:

![Reservoir - Drupal distribution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acquia/reservoir/8.x-1.x/reservoir-logo.png)

# Reservoir
Reservoir is a back end for your front end: a content repository. Uses
[JSON API](http://jsonapi.org) and OAuth2.

It's dead simple to use. Log in and there are four tabs:

1. **Content:** where content administrators administer content
2. **API:** where client developers can browse the API documentation
3. **Content models:** where the owner can model content for their needs
4. **Access control:** where the owner can administer users, clients, roles,
   permissions and tokens

After installing, you're welcomed by a tour, and you're ready to explore — in
fact, you can make API requests right away!

---

## How to install Reservoir

The preferred way to install Reservoir is using our
[Composer-based project template][template]. It's easy!

1. [Install Composer][getcomposer]

2. Create a Reservoir project with `composer`
```
$ composer create-project acquia/reservoir-project MY_PROJECT --stability=alpha
```
3. In your webhost configuration, point `my-project.com` to `[MY_PROJECT]/docroot`
4. Install Reservoir by going to *http://my-project.com*

## Concepts

There are only seven concepts you need to understand, and most of them you already know!

1. Content models
2. Content
3. Users
4. Clients (OAuth2)
5. Roles
6. Permissions
7. Tokens (OAuth2)

The tour starts automatically after installing Reservoir. Afterwards, you can
take the tour again by clicking the "Tour" button in the top right corner.

## Authentication

Reservoir supports only OAuth2, and only the Password Grant for OAuth2. Why
only this grant type? Because Reservoir provides a content repository, and
all content must have an author.

The password grant type allows clients (applications and front ends) to
interact with Reservoir, but always on behalf of a user.

## Before deploying to production

Before deploying Reservoir to production, delete demo material and change the
keys.

During installation, Reservoir creates four pieces of demo material:
1. `/node/1`: demo content, titled "Hello world"
2. `/user/2`: demo client user, called  `demo-user`
3. `/user/3`: demo content administrator, called `demo-writer`
4. `/user/4`: demo client developer, called `demo-developer`
5. `/client/1`: demo client, called `Demo app`

(The password is identical to the user upon each installation.)

You'll want to:
1. Remove the demo material
2. Replace the auto-generated OAuth2 public/private key pair
3. Refine CORS settings

That's it!

## Related projects

There is a rapidly expanding ecosystem surrounding Reservoir:

- **[reservoir-project](https://github.com/acquia/reservoir-project):** Composer installer for Reservoir
- **[reservoir-docker](https://github.com/mattgrill/reservoir-docker):** Docker image for Reservoir
- **[well](https://github.com/damontgomery/well):** Drupal installation based on Reservoir and [BLT](https://github.com/acquia/blt)


## Drupalists

If you're already deeply familiar with Drupal's concepts (such as entity types, fieldable entity types, config entity types, entity bundles, text formats, vocabularies, Views …) and you are used to finding your way around the Drupal UI, then you may find Reservoir too limiting.

Reservoir limits itself to `node`s ("Content") and `node_type`s ("Content models"). These limitations make it simpler, more understandable, hence simplifying development, maintenance and the mental model.

However, Reservoir still allows you to install any Drupal module to gradually add capabilities (if and when you need them): it's still Drupal under the hood. If you want the most complete Drupal experience, already preconfigured for decoupled use cases, we recommend you try [Contenta](http://www.contentacms.org/).

Reservoir focuses on simplicity (but is limited). Contenta focuses on powerfulness & completeness (but has all of Drupal's copmlexity).


## Future

- Support [GraphQL](https://www.drupal.org/project/graphql) once it matures
- [Add authentication information to the OpenAPI docs](https://www.drupal.org/node/2886726)
- Add maintainable mechanism to not expose certain content/config entity types in both API docs nor allow accessing them via JSON API.
- Ensure only users with the `content_administrator` or `client_developer` roles can log in.
- Allow users with the `client_developer` to create and edit roles other than `client_administrator` and `client_developer`, and allow them only to grant+revoke non-restricted permissions. This then allows them to define roles (scopes) for clients.
- Make it easy to delete all default content in one go: node 1, users 2, 3 and 4.

[template]: https://github.com/acquia/reservoir-project "Composer-based project template"
[getcomposer]: https://getcomposer.org/ "Get Composer website"
